>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY OCTOBER 17:
THOUSANDS OF MIGRANTS HIT A
DETOUR IN CENTRAL EUROPE AS
HUNGARY CLOSES ITS BORDER WITH
CROATIA.
AND, CONCERNS OVER EXPANDING THE
AMERICAN-TRAINED NATIONAL POLICE
FORCE IN AFGHANISTAN.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, COULD
HEMP BECOME THE NEXT BIG CASH
CROP IN KENTUCKY AND OTHER
TOBACCO-GROWING STATES?
>> IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT THEIR
PROJECTED PROFIT MARGIN WILL BE
PER ACRE, IT'S GONNA BE
SIGNIFICANTLY GREATER THAN
TOBACCO EVER WAS.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THOUSANDS OF MIGRANTS FROM THE
MIDDLE EAST, ASIA, AND AFRICA
ARE BEING DETOURED ON THEIR
DESIRED PATH TO WESTERN AND
NORTHERN EUROPE.
TODAY, HUNGARY CLOSED ITS BORDER
WITH THE NATION IMMEDIATELY TO
ITS SOUTH, CROATIA, BY
COMPLETING A 216-MILE LONG STEEL
AND BARBED WIRE FENCE.
LAST NIGHT, HUNGARIAN BORDER
GUARDS LET IN THE FINAL 2,000
MIGRANTS FROM CROATIA.
TODAY, CROATIA RE-ROUTED 1,800
MIGRANTS ON TRAINS INTO
SLOVENIA, WHICH THEN LEAD TO
AUSTRIA AND GERMANY.
THOSE TWO COUNTRIES HAVE
ACCEPTED MORE ASYLUM SEEKERS
THAN ANY OTHER EUROPEAN NATIONS.
CROATIA'S INTERIOR MINISTER WAS
QUOTED TODAY AS SAYING, "NOBODY
CAN STOP THIS FLOW WITHOUT
SHOOTING."
THE ENTRY POINT TO EUROPE OFTEN
BEGINS IN GREECE, WHERE
TODAY THERE WAS A REMINDER OF
HOW DANGEROUS THE JOURNEY IS.
A DOZEN REFUGEES THOUGHT TO BE
FROM SYRIA OR AFGHANISTAN
DROWNED TRYING TO REACH THE
GREEK ISLAND OF LESBOS.
TURKEY'S COAST GUARD RESCUED
ANOTHER 25 PEOPLE FROM THE
AEGEAN SEA.
THE UNITED NATIONS ESTIMATES
400,000 REFUGEES HAVE CROSSED TO
GREECE THIS YEAR.
A MONTH'S WORTH OF STREET
VIOLENCE IS CONTINUING THIS
WEEKEND IN ISRAEL.
TODAY IN JERUSALEM, ISRAELI
POLICE SHOT AND KILLED THREE
PALESTINIANS WHO, ACCORDING TO
THE POLICE, HAD ATTACKED THEM
WITH KNIVES.
EIGHT ISRAELIS HAVE BEEN KILLED
IN STABBINGS IN THE PAST MONTH,
AND AT LEAST 40 PALESTINIANS
HAVE BEEN KILLED BY ISRAELI
FIRE.
TODAY IN THE WEST BANK CITY OF
RAMALLAH, ISRAELI TROOPS CLASHED
WITH PALESTINIAN PROTESTERS.
THE UNREST OF RECENT WEEKS BEGAN
BECAUSE OF RUMORS THAT ISRAEL
MIGHT LIMIT ACCESS TO THE AL
AQSA MOSQUE IN JERUSALEM'S OLD
CITY, WHICH ISRAEL HAS DENIED.
IN SYRIA, GOVERNMENT TROOPS ARE
PRESSING AN OFFENSIVE TO TAKE
BACK THE COUNTRY'S SECOND
LARGEST CITY, ALEPPO.
REBEL FORCES SEEKING TO
OVERTHROW SYRIAN PRESIDENT
BASHAR-AL ASSAD HAVE HELD THE
EASTERN HALF OF ALEPPO FOR THREE
YEARS.
ASSAD'S TROOPS ARE BEING AIDED
BY RUSSIAN AIR POWER AND IRAN-
BACKED MILITIAS.
RUSSIA'S MILITARY SAYS IT HAS
CARRIED OUT 400 BOMBING RAIDS
THIS WEEK.
RUSSIAN PRIME MINISTER DMITRY
MEDVEDEV SAID TODAY RUSSIA'S
CAMPAIGN IN SYRIA IS NOT
DESIGNED TO PROP UP PRESIDENT
ASSAD, BUT TO DEFEAT ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS.
THE FAMILY OF A NIGERIAN COLLEGE
STUDENT WHO DIED IN A SAVANNAH,
GEORGIA, JAIL NINE-AND-HALF
MONTHS AGO SAYS THEY ARE "NOT
SURPRISED" TWO FORMER SHERIFF'S
DEPUTIES HAVE BEEN ACQUITTED IN
HIS DEATH.
A JURY RETURNED "NOT GUILTY"
VERDICTS YESTERDAY ON
MANSLAUGHTER CHARGES BROUGHT IN
THE CASE OF MATTHEW AJIBADE, WHO
DIED ALONE IN HIS CELL SHACKLED
TO A CHAIR.
THE DEPUTIES HAD USED A TASER ON
AJIBADE MULTIPLE TIMES WHILE HE
WAS RESTRAINED AND THEN LEFT HIM
UNATTENDED.
HE HAD FOUGHT WITH DEPUTIES
AFTER BEING ARRESTED ON A
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CHARGE.
AJIBADE'S FAMILY SAYS HE
SUFFERED FROM BIPOLAR DISORDER.
A COUSIN SAID: "THE SAME SYSTEM
THAT FAILED MATHEW WOULD NOT BE
THE SYSTEM THAT GOT HIM
JUSTICE."
ONE FORMER DEPUTY WAS CONVICTED
OF CRUELTY TO AN INMATE.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION INTENDS
TO BLOCK FUTURE PLANS TO DRILL
FOR OIL IN THE ARCTIC WATERS OFF
ALASKA.
THE INTERIOR DEPARTMENT SAYS IT
IS CANCELING FUTURE AUCTIONS FOR
OFFSHORE DRILLING RIGHTS FOR THE
NEXT TWO YEARS, AND NOT
EXTENDING ANY CURRENT LEASES TO
DRILL OFF ALASKA'S NORTHERN
COAST.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT COMES JUST A
FEW WEEKS AFTER ROYAL DUTCH
SHELL, THE ONLY MAJOR ENERGY
COMPANY ACTIVELY EXPLORING THE
AREA, HALTED ITS OPERATIONS
AFTER SPENDING $7 BILLION AND
FINDING RELATIVELY LITTLE OIL.
THE CONSERVATION GROUP OCEANA
SAID THE ADMINISTRATION'S
DECISION IS CONSISTENT WITH"
GOOD PUBLIC POLICY AND ECONOMIC
REALITIES."
U.S. AIRWAYS IS NO MORE.
THE AIRLINE'S LAST FLIGHT LANDED
IN PHILADELPHIA EARLY THIS
MORNING, A RED EYE COMING FROM
SAN FRANCISCO WITH 187
PASSENGERS ON BOARD.
IT WAS FLIGHT NUMBER 1939, THE
SAME YEAR THE AIRLINE WAS
FOUNDED.
THE WORLD'S BIGGEST AIRLINE,
AMERICAN, BOUGHT U.S. AIRWAYS.
THE MERGER ANNOUNCED TWO YEARS
AGO IS NOW COMPLETE.
>> Sreenivasan: PRESIDENT OBAMA
ANNOUNCED THIS WEEK THAT
AMERICAN TROOPS WILL NOT FULLY
WITHDRAW FROM AFGHANISTAN, AS HE
HAD PLANNED, BY THE END OF HIS
PRESIDENCY.
INSTEAD, 10,000 U.S. TROOPS WILL
REMAIN DEPLOYED FOR ANOTHER YEAR
TO HELP AFGHANISTAN QUELL THE
RESURGENT TALIBAN AND ALSO TO
KEEP TRAINING AFGHANISTAN'S
POLICE FORCE TO EXPAND AND STAND
ON ITS OWN.
JOINING ME IN THE STUDIO TO
DISCUSS THIS IS AUSTIN LONG, A
PROFESSOR OF INTERNATIONAL AND
PUBLIC AFFAIRS FOCUSING ON
SECURITY POLICY AT COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY HERE IN NEW YORK.
SO, WE SPOKE A COUPLE OF DAYS
AGO ON THE BROADCAST ABOUT THE
MILITARY DECISION AND ASSISTANCE
TO THE AFGHAN MILITARY, BUT THE
POLICE FORCE HAS ALSO BEEN PART
OF THE STRATEGY.
WHERE IS THAT?
WAS THAT A SUCCESS OR FAILURE
OVER THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS?
>> SO THE AFGHAN POLICE FORCE IS
JUST ONE COMPONENT OF THE AFGHAN
SECURITY FORCES.
THERE IS ALSO AN ARMY.
THERE IS ALSO AN INTELLIGENCE
SERVICE.
THE POLICE HAVE MORE OR LESS
BEEN THE LAGGING SECURITY FORCE.
THEY'VE BEEN THE LEAST DEVELOPED
OVER TIME, AND SO THEY'VE BEEN
AN INTEGRAL PART OF SECURITY IN
AFGHANISTAN, BUT THEY HAVEN'T
BEEN HIGHLY EFFECTIVE
>> Sreenivasan: SO SOME OF THE
AREAS, ESPECIALLY IN RURAL
AFGHANISTAN, HAVE A PRETTY TENSE
RELATIONSHIP WITH ANY AUTHORITY,
WHETHER IT'S THE AFGHAN
GOVERNMENT, WHETHER IT'S THE
U.S. GOVERNMENT OR THE TALIBAN,
RIGHT?
>> SO, THAT'S ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
AND ONE OF THE BIG ANSWERS TO
THIS IN THEOR WAS TO CREATE
LOCAL POLICE FORCE.
SO THERE'S AN AFGHAN NATIONAL
POLICE FORCE THAT COVERS THE
ENTIRE COUNTRY AT THE FEDERAL
LEVEL.
BEGINNING IN 2009, THE UNITED
STATES BEGAN PRESSING A PLAN TO
BUILD LOCAL POLICE FORCES THAT
WOULD OPERATE MORE OR LESS AT
THE VILLAGE OR DISTRICT LEVEL,
VERY LOCAL FORCES THAT WOULD IN
THEORY HAVE A BIG INCENTIVE TO
DEFEND THEIR HOME TERRITORY AND
WOULDN'T BE EXPECTED TO GO FIGHT
ANYWHERE ELSE IN AFGHANISTAN
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHY DIDN'T
THAT WORK?
>> WELL, THERE ARE SEVERAL
REASONS WHY THIS PROGRAM HAS
BEEN A PROBLEM.
THE FIRST IS THE AFGHAN
GOVERNMENT WAS INITIALLY VERY
RELUCTANT TO DO IT.
PRESIDENT KARZAI SAW THESE
FORCES AS ESSENTIALLY
RESUSCITATED MILITIA AND MILITIA
IS A DIRTY WORD IN AFGHANISTAN
AFTER THE 1980S AND 1990s.
SO THAT WAS ONE REASON.
A BIGGER REASON, I THINK, IS
ONCE THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT
BOUGHT OFF IN 2010 AND THIS
BECAME A FORMAL PART OF THE
AFGHAN POLICE, CALLED THE AFGHAN
LOCAL POLICE, THERE WAS A BIG
PUSH TO EXPAND THIS PROGRAM VERY
QUICKLY.
THESE UNITS WERE SEEN AS THE KEY
TO PROVIDING SECURITY IN THESE
REMOTE VILLAGES WHICH, AS YOU
SAY, MAY HAVE A VERY TENSE
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE
GOVERNMENT.
THE PROBLEM WAS IN THE PUSH TO
RAPIDLY EXPAND THIS PROGRAM IN
2011 AND 2012, I WOULD ARGUE IT
GREW TOO QUICKLY.
YOU DIDN'T HAVE SUFFICIENT
VETTING OF THE INDIVIDUALS TO
MAKE SURE THEY WEREN'T GOING TO
COMMIT THE KIND OF ABUSES THAT
PRESIDENT KARZAI WAS WORRIED
ABOUT.
IN SOME CASES YOU HAD LOCAL
POLICE OR INDIVIDUALS THAT
CLAIMED TO BE LOCAL POLICE THAT
WERE NOT FROM THE LOCAL AREA.
THEY ESSENTIALLY COME IN FROM
THE OUTSIDE.
SO THERE WERE A LOT OF ISSUES,
I'D SAY, OVER THE PERIOD 2011 TO
'12 AND '13
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT?
ALONG SIDE THE U.S. FORCES THAT
REMAIN ON THE GROUND, DO THEY
PLAY A ROLE IN TRAINING OF THE
AFGHAN POLICE AS WELL?
>> I THINK IT WOULD BE VERY
DIFFICULT FOR THESE KIND OF
LOCAL PROGRAMS FOR THE U.S.
SERVICEMEN TO PEAPT JUST BECAUSE
THEY TEND TO BE VERY FAR FROM
THE BASES THAT THE U.S. IS AT
NOW.
SO IN 2010, THE U.S. HAD SMALL
BASES SCATTERED THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY, IN ADDITION TO VERY
LARGE BASES.
NOW WE'VE MORE OR LESS COME DOWN
TO THE BIG BASES SO IT'S
DIFFICULT TO GET OUT AND DO
TRAINING IN THESE REMOTE
VILLAGES.
I THINK THIS WILL BE A VERY
AFGHAN-LED PROGRAM
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
AUSTIN LONG FROM COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH
FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: THE MILITANT
GROUP KNOWN AS THE ISLAMIC
STATE, OR ISIS, CONTROLS HUGE
AMOUNTS OF TERRITORY IN IRAQ AND
SYRIA.
AND ISIS FINANCES MUCH OF ITS
MILITARY OPERATIONS FROM
SIPHONING AND SELLING THE
GREATEST COMMODITY IN IRAQ AND
SYRIA: OIL.
SOME ESTIMATES PUT PROCEEDS FROM
THE ISIS THEFT AT $1.5 MILLION A
DAY."
FINANCIAL TIMES" REPORTER ERIKA
SOLOMON HAS WRITTEN ABOUT THIS,
AND SHE JOINS ME NOW, FROM
CHICAGO.
SO, ERIKA, HOW IS IT POSSIBLE
THAT THEY HAVE THIS KIND OF AN
INDUSTRY OF OIL IN THE MIDDLE OF
THE WAR WHERE DIFFERENT
COUNTRIES ARE ATTACKING THEM?
>> WELL, THAT'S THE VERY
INTERESTING PART BECAUSE
ACTUALLY, ATTACKING OIL FIELDS
IS QUITE DIFFICULT.
YOU CAN'T JUST BOMB AN OIL
FIELD.
IT COULD CAUSE A NATURAL
DISASTER AND IT COULD
POTENTIALLY HURT THAT COUNTRY'S
FUTURE IN TERMS OF USING ITS
OIL.
SO THE COALITION CAN ONLY REALLY
GO AFTER REFINING PROCESSES OR
EVERYTHING AFTER THE EXTRACTION.
AND ISIS HAS USED THAT TO ITS
ADVANTAGE.
BASICALLY, IT'S TAKEN OVER OIL
FIELDS AND HAS USED EMPLOYEES
WHO ALREADY WERE WORKING AT
THOSE FIELDS TO CONTINUE
PRODUCTION.
AND THE OTHER THING IS THAT
SYRIA HAS BEEN IN A WAR FOR
ABOUT FIVE YEARS SO, PEOPLE IN
THIS REGION, WHEN THE GOVERNMENT
LOST CONTROL, HAD BEEN DOING
THIS FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
WHAT ISIS DID WAS JUST TAKE OVER
PRODUCTION THAT WAS ALREADY
ONGOING AND IMPROVE IT
>> Sreenivasan: OKAY SO WHO DO
THEY SELL THIS OIL TO?
ISIS SELLS THIS OIL TO EVERYONE
THERE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE THINK THAT THE
OIL PROBABLY GOES TO TURKEY.
BUT WE FOUND MOST OF THE OIL IS
BEING BOUGHT BY THE PEOPLE ISIS
CONTROLS, OR EVEN THEIR
NEIGHBORS WHO ARE TECHNICALLY AT
WITH THEM.
THE MOST STRIKING EXAMPLES WOULD
BE AREAS TO THE NORTHWEST
CONTROLLED BY THE SYRIAN OPTION,
WHICH IS AT WAR WITH ISIS.
THEY FIGHT ISIS AT THE SAME TIME
THAT THEY ACTUALLY HAVE TO BUY
THEIR FUEL BECAUSE THEY HAVE NO
OTHER OPTION
>> Sreenivasan: SO THE
HOSPITALS ARE ALL POWERED BY
GENERATORS USING OIL FROM ISIS.
>> YEAH, THAT'S THE REALLY
SHOCKING PART.
AT SOME POINT, ISIS HAS BLOCKED
FUEL MOVING TO REBEL AREAS TO
MAKE THIS POINT, AND A FEW
MONTHS AGO WHAT HAPPENED IS WE
SAW HOSPITALS THAT DIDN'T HAVE
ANY FUEL.
THEY COULDN'T POWER SOME OF
THEIR OPERATIONS ROOMS AND
PEOPLE ACTUALLY DIED BECAUSE
THEY DIDN'T CENTER FUEL IS THERE
WHY IS THIS SO DIFFICULT TO
STOP?
YOU SAID IT'S HARD TO BOMB OIL
FIELDS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
REPERCUSSIONS.
WHY IS IT SO DIFFICULT TO STOP
THE PIPELINE OF OIL GETTING FOR
ONE PLACE IN SYRIA OR IRAQ TO
ANOTHER?
>> THERE ARE DIFFERENCES OF
OPINION AMONG THE INTERNATIONAL
COALITION ABOUT HOW TO HANDLE
THIS.
IN REPORTING THE STORY, I WENT
TO PLACES ON THE BORDER BETWEEN
SYRIA AND IRAQ WHERE KURDISH
PESHMERGA FORCES ARE FIGHTING
ISIS WITH SUPPORT FROM COALITION
AIR FORCES.
THEY WOULD LIKE IT BOMB ROUTES
WHERE YOU CAN SEE TRUCKS GOING
BY WITH OIL, BUT THEIR COALITION
PARTNERS IT'S AMERICANS SAY WE
DON'T WANT TO DO THAT.
WE DON'T WANT TO TURN WHAT ARE
ESSENTIALLY CIVILIAN TRADERS
AGAINST US BECAUSE WHAT ISIS HAS
DONE IS ALLOW LOCALS TO BUY
THEIR FUEL.
THEY DON'T ACTUALLY CONTROL THE
ENTIRE SYSTEM.
THEY ONLY CONTROL THE EXTRACT
AND SELL CRUDE OIL.
LOCALS ARE THE ONES WHO REFINE
IT AND STILL IT ON AND THEY'RE
BENEFITING FROM IT BECAUSE THEY
DON'T REALLY HAVE ANY OTHER
ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITIES RIGHT
NOW.
AND THAT'S YET COALITION HAS
REALLY STRUGGLED TO FIND AN
EFFECTIVE WAY TO FIGHT OIL
INDUSTRY IN SYRIA
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
ERIKA SOLOMON, NORMALLY BASED IN
BEIRUT BUT JOINING US TODAY FROM
CHICAGO.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR DECADES,
HEMP HAS BEEN TABOO IN THE
UNITED STATES.
FEDERAL LAW PROHIBITED FARMERS
FROM GROWING IT, BECAUSE HEMP
COMES FROM THE CANNABIS PLANT,
THE SAME PLANT SPECIES AS
MARIJUANA.
BUT THE HEMP BAN IS STARTING TO
SOFTEN.
LAST YEAR, CONGRESS APPROVED
PILOT PROJECTS TO GROW A LIMITED
AMOUNT OF HEMP, AND ONE STATE IN
PARTICULAR, KENTUCKY, IS AT THE
FOREFRONT OF THIS AGRICULTURAL
EXPERIMENT.
AND, AT A TIME WHEN TOBACCO
FARMING IS IN DECLINE, SOME
FARMERS SEE THEIR FUTURE IN
HEMP.
THE NEWSHOUR'S CHRISTOPHER
BOOKER REPORTS FROM KENTUCKY.
>> BASICALLY, A BARN LIKE THIS,
WITH TWENTY GUYS, WE CAN LOAD
THIS BARN IN TWO DAYS.
>> Reporter: BRIAN FURNISH AND
HIS FAMILY HAVE BEEN GROWING
TOBACCO FOR EIGHT GENERATIONS.
THEY STARTED IN VIRGINIA NEARLY
TWO HUNDRED YEARS AGO THEN
MIGRATED IN THE MID-1800s TO THE
ROLLING HILLS OF CENTRAL
KENTUCKY.
>> I GUESS IT'S A LABOR OF LOVE,
ONE WE HAVE ALWAYS DONE.
WE GREW UP IN IT AND I GUESS WE
ALWAYS WILL AS LONG AS IT'S
AVAILABLE TO US.
>> Reporter: BUT LIFE AS A
KENTUCKY TOBACCO FARMER IS NOT
AS LUCRATIVE AS IT ONCE WAS.
THANKS TO ANTI-SMOKING CAMPAIGNS
AND HIGH TAXES ON CIGARETTES,
DOMESTIC DEMAND IS DOWN AND
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT PRICE
SUPPORTS ARE GONE.
THE DAYS WHEN KENTUCKY'S CROP
GROSSED NEARLY $1 BILLION A YEAR
ARE NO MORE, FORCING BRIAN, AND
FARMERS LIKE HIM, TO IMAGINE A
FUTURE WITHOUT TOBACCO AND
DIVERSIFY THEIR FARMS.
HIS MOVE TO CATTLE PAID OFF WITH
RISING BEEF PRICES, BUT BRIAN'S
MOST RECENT BET IS CANNABIS
SATIVA, ALSO KNOWN AS HEMP.
BUT THERE IS A CATCH.
TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, HEMP
IS JUST AS ILLEGAL AS MARIJUANA.
KENTUCKY AGRICULTURE
COMMISSIONER JAMES COMER IS
DETERMINED TO CHANGE THAT.
>> THERE IS NO REASON WHY
INDUSTRIAL HEMP SHOULD'VE BEEN
OUTLAWED IN THE UNITED STATES OR
IN KENTUCKY.
>> Reporter: BOTH MARIJUANA AND
HEMP ARE CANNABIS PLANTS, AND TO
THE NAKED EYE THEY LOOK AND
SMELL THE SAME.
THE MAIN DIFFERENCE COMES DOWN
TO THE AMOUNT OF
TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL, COMMONLY
REFERRED TO AS T.H.C., THE
PSYCHOACTIVE CHEMICAL IN THE
CANNABIS PLANT.
HEMP HAS A T.H.C. LEVEL BELOW
.3% PERCENT, ESSENTIALLY MAKING
IT IMPOSSIBLE TO GET HIGH ON THE
PLANT, WHEREAS MARIJUANA HAS
T.H.C. LEVELS ARE ABOVE .3%.
POTENCY LEVELS GENERALLY VARY
BETWEEN 1% AND 20%.
>> IT'S A CROP THAT TODAY WE
MAKE A LOT OF PRODUCTS FROM
PLASTIC AND WOOD, TOMORROW THOSE
PRODUCTS WILL BE MADE FROM
INDUSTRIAL HEMP.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT WHEN PEOPLE
THOUGHT OF HEMP, THEY THOUGHT OF
MARIJUANA.
>> Reporter: IN ORDER TO MOVE
FORWARD, COMER AND OTHER LEADERS
HAVE TRIED TO CHANGE THE
MISPERCEPTIONS.
AND THIS WAS A HARD SELL.
KENTUCKY'S STATE POLICE
COMMISSIONER WASN'T CONVINCED.
HE DECLINED OUR REQUEST FOR AN
INTERVIEW, BUT HAS VOICED HIS
SKEPTICISM ON THE LOCAL PBS
PROGRAM "KENTUCKY TONIGHT."
>> THE MAIN, NUMBER ONE CONCERN
THAT LAW ENFORCEMENT HAS IS THAT
IT IS IMPOSSIBLE FOR US WITH
AERIAL SURVEILLANCE, WHICH IS
HOW WE CUT MOST OF OUR
MARIJUANA, 441,000 PLANTS LAST
YEAR ON THE GOVERNOR'S MARIJUANA
STRIKE TASK FORCE, YOU CANNOT
DISTINGUISH THAT FROM THE AIR OR
EVEN ON THE GROUND WHEN YOU'RE
IN THE FIELD TO THE NAKED EYE.
BUT THE BIG ISSUE THAT WE HAVE
IS WHAT IS TO PREVENT AN
UNSCRUPULOUS FARMER, MAYBE WITH
OR WITHOUT HIS KNOWLEDGE, FROM
SOMEONE GOING IN AND PLANTING
TEN, FIFTEEN, TWENTY MARIJUANA
PLANTS IN THE CENTER OF THIS ONE
ACRE, TEN ACRE TRACT?
>> Reporter: THE APPEAL OF HEMP
IS BASED ON THE PRODUCTIVITY AND
DIVERSE USAGE OF THE PLANT.
THE FIBER CAN BE USED IN ROPE,
CLOTHING, BUILDING MATERIALS,
EVEN CAR DASHBOARDS.
WHOLE FOODS SELLS A VARIETY OF
PRODUCTS DERIVED FROM HEMP
SEEDS-- FROM HEMP GRANOLA BARS
TO HEMP MILK.
AND THE BODY SHOP, OFFERS
EVERYTHING FROM HEMP HAND CREAM
TO HEMP SOAP-ON-A-ROPE.
BUT ALL OF THE HEMP FIBER,
SEEDS, OR OILS IN THESE PRODUCTS
COMES FROM HEMP GROWN OUTSIDE OF
THE UNITED STATES TO THE TUNE OF
ABOUT $500 MILLION A YEAR.
AFTER COMER TOOK OFFICE IN 2012,
HE PUSHED THE STATE LEGISLATURE
TO PASS A LAW THAT SET THE BASIC
FRAMEWORK FOR A KENTUCKY HEMP
INDUSTRY.
BUT GETTING HEMP SEEDS IN THE
GROUND REQUIRED THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT.
SO, THE STATE TURNED TO ONE OF
THE MOST POWERFUL POLITICIANS IN
WASHINGTON FOR HELP: THE SENIOR
U.S SENATOR FROM KENTUCKY AND
CURRENT REPUBLICAN MAJORITY
LEADER, MITCH McCONNELL.
WHEN THE 2014 FARM BILL ARRIVED
IN THE SENATE, IT INCLUDED A
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
AMENDMENT GRANTING COLLEGES AND
UNIVERSITIES THE RIGHT TO GROW
AND STUDY INDUSTRIAL HEMP.
IN THE SENATE VERSION OF THE
BILL, SENATOR McCONNELL INSERTED
A KEY MEASURE EXTENDING THE
RIGHTS TO STATE AGRICULTURE
DEPARTMENTS, CLEARING THE WAY
FOR STATES TO LICENSE INDIVIDUAL
FARMERS TO GROW HEMP.
AFTER IT PASSED, McCONNELL
ISSUED A STATEMENT APPLAUDING
WHAT THIS MIGHT MEAN FOR
KENTUCKY, SAYING: "THIS IS AN
IMPORTANT VICTORY FOR KENTUCKY'S
FARMERS, AND I WAS PLEASED TO BE
ABLE TO SECURE THIS LANGUAGE ON
BEHALF OF OUR STATE.
WE ARE LAYING THE GROUNDWORK FOR
A NEW COMMODITY MARKET FOR
KENTUCKY FARMERS."
BRIAN FURNISH WAS ONE OF THE
FIRST KENTUCKY FARMERS APPROVED
LAST YEAR TO GROW HEMP, BUT IT
WASN'T THAT SIMPLE.
BECAUSE THE STATE LACKED A
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE IMPORT
PERMIT, THE DRUG ENFORCEMENT
ADMINISTRATION HELD UP THE FIRST
BATCH OF SEED FOR WEEKS.
>> THEY SEIZED ONE OF OUR
SHIPMENTS AND WE HAD TO GO TO
COURT IN LOUISVILLE TO GET THE
SEED RELEASED AND TO LAY OUT THE
FRAMEWORK OF WHAT WE WOULD HAVE
TO DO TO GET OUR LICENSING
PERMITS.
LAST YEAR WAS A REALLY SLOW
PROCESS.
THIS SEASON IT WASN'T SO BAD.
THEY ONLY DELAYED US ABOUT MAYBE
TEN DAYS.
>> Reporter: EVEN WITH SEEDS IN
HAND, FURNISH WAS MONITORED FROM
PLANTING TO HARVEST.
>> EVERYTHING WE DO HAS TO BE
REPORTED.
WE HAVE TO GO THROUGH A CRIMINAL
BACKGROUND CHECK.
ALL OF OUR FIELDS HAVE TO BE
G.P.S. WHEN THEY'RE PLANTED.
SAMPLES WILL BE TAKEN OF EVERY
FIELD TO TEST FOR THE T.H.C.
LEVELS.
>> Reporter: WHILE FURNISH AND
THE STATE VIEW THIS EFFORT AS A
WAY TO PUSH FARMS INTO A POST-
TOBACCO FUTURE, THE MOVE TO HEMP
IS ACTUALLY A RETURN TO A PLANT
THAT ONCE DOMINATED THE KENTUCKY
LANDSCAPE.
>> WITH PHILIPPINE AND EAST
INDIAN SOURCES OF HEMP NOW IN
THE HANDS OF THE JAPANESE,
AMERICAN HEMP MUST MEET THE
NEEDS OF OUR ARMY AND NAVY, AS
WELL AS OUR INDUSTRIES.
>> Reporter: AT THE HEIGHT OF
WORLD WAR TWO, THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT TEMPORARILY ALLOWED
AND ENCOURAGED FARMERS TO GROW
HEMP FOR THE WAR EFFORT.
>> ROPE FOR MARINE RIGGING AND
TOWING, THREAD FOR SHOES FOR
MILLIONS OF AMERICAN SOLDIERS,
AND PARACHUTE WEBBING FOR OUR
PARATROOPERS.
>> Reporter: AT THE WAR'S END,
CAME THE END OF KENTUCKY HEMP.
DESPITE THE STATE'S HISTORY,
THERE ARE ESSENTIALLY NO FARMERS
REMAINING THAT HAVE DIRECT
EXPERIENCE WITH THE PLANT.
UNLIKE THE TOBACCO FARMING
TECHNIQUES THAT HAVE BEEN PASSED
DOWN THROUGH THE GENERATIONS,
KENTUCKY FARMERS THAT ARE
LOOKING TO EXPERIMENT WITH HEMP
ARE MOSTLY RELYING ON THE
TECHNIQUES DEVELOPED IN OTHER
COUNTRIES.
>> THE USES OF HEMP AT THAT
PERIOD OF HISTORY ARE VERY, VERY
DIFFERENT THAN WHY WE WOULD GROW
HEMP TODAY.
>> Reporter: FOLLOWING THE
PASSAGE OF THE LAST YEAR'S FARM
BILL, PROFESSOR DAVID WILLIAMS
HELPED LAUNCH THE UNIVERSITY OF
KENTUCKY'S HEMP RESEARCH
PROGRAM.
>> IF YOU CONSIDER A PLANT THAT
HAS THREE POTENTIAL HARVESTABLE
COMPONENTS THERE AREN'T TOO MANY
OTHER CROPS THAT WE'RE GROWING
IN KENTUCKY THAT CAN SERVE THAT
ROLE.
WE HAVE EXPERIMENTS FOR ALL
THREE THIS YEAR.
THE ONE BEHIND ME IS A NATURAL
FIBER TRIAL.
WE HAVE TWO TRIALS INVESTIGATING
GRAIN PRODUCTION, GROWING HEMP
JUST FOR THE SEED FOR FOOD
PURPOSES, ANIMAL OR HUMAN FOOD.
AND THEN WE ALSO HAVE SOME
TRIALS INVESTIGATING THE
PRODUCTION OF CANNABINOIDS.
>> Reporter: IT IS THESE
CANNABINOIDS, THE BIOCHEMICALS
IN HEMP THAT SOME BELIEVE HAVE
POTENTIAL MEDICINAL
APPLICATIONS, FROM REDUCING
SEIZURES TO TREATING CANCER.
THE STATE FEELS, THIS IS WHERE
MOST POTENTIAL PROFIT LIES, BUT
JAMES COMER SAYS, THIS IS WHERE
THEY ARE FACING ANOTHER
CHALLENGE FROM A FEDERAL AGENCY,
THE FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION.
>> SOME OF OUR MOST PROFITABLE
PILOT PROJECTS NOW ARE FOCUSED
ON THE CANNABIDIOL FROM A
PHARMACEUTICAL STANDPOINT.
IF YOU LOOK AT WHAT THEIR
PROJECTED PROFIT MARGIN WILL BE
PER ACRE, IT'S GOING TO BE
SIGNIFICANTLY GREATER THAN
TOBACCO EVER WAS.
>> Reporter: BUT ANY MEDICINAL
APPLICATION WOULD REQUIRE THE
APPROVAL OF THE F.D.A., THE
AGENCY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
REGULATION OF MEDICATION AND
DIETARY SUPPLEMENTS.
IN AN EXCERPT FROM A STATEMENT
TO THE NEWSHOUR, THE F.D.A.
SAID: "IT IS IMPORTANT AND
APPROPRIATE TO USE THE SAME
SCIENTIFIC STANDARDS IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AND ASSESSMENT OF
POTENTIAL THERAPEUTIC USES OF
CANNABIDIOL AS WITH ANY
UNAPPROVED DRUG THAT THE AGENCY
REVIEWS."
>> WITH ALL NEW INDUSTRIES,
THERE'S AN ELEMENT OF RISK.
>> Reporter: TREY RIDDLE HOPES
TO CASH IN ON HEMP.
HE RELOCATED HIS MATERIALS
COMPANY, SUNSTRAND, FROM
MONTANA.
>> MY COMPANY RIGHT NOW IS
PREPARED TO CHART A PATH INTO
THE UNKNOWN AND INVEST TIME,
MONEY, RESOURCES INTO DEVELOPING
CAPABILITIES TO TAKE THE
MATERIAL TO THE NEXT STEP.
WE DO FEEL THAT THERE IS A LARGE
MARKET POTENTIAL FOR HEMP, AND
SO ARE WILLING TO MAKE THOSE
INVESTMENTS.
>> Reporter: WHAT IF THERE'S A
CHANGE IN POLICY AND THEY
BASICALLY SAY, "OKAY NO MORE, NO
MORE HEMP?"
>> I'M NOT TOO WORRIED ABOUT
THAT MYSELF.
I DON'T REALLY SEE THE LAWS
GOING BACKWARDS.
I THINK IT WOULD BE A HARD SELL,
BECAUSE WE ARE MAKING A LOT OF
PROGRESS.
>> Reporter: PARTICULARLY
THINKING ABOUT YOUR OWN
TRAJECTORY, YOU KNOW, BRIAN
FURNISH, WHOSE FARM WE VISITED,
HE HAS A HUNDRED ACRES.
I MEAN, IF YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
SCALING UP, YOU'RE GOING TO NEED
A LOT MORE HEMP.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
I MEAN WE EXPECT TO NEED 5,000
ACRES OF HEMP IN THE NOT-SO-
DISTANT FUTURE FOR JUST A
PORTION OF WHAT WE THINK IS A
MAJOR INDUSTRY.
>> Reporter: A POTENTIAL MAJOR
INDUSTRY FOR KENTUCKY AND DOZEN
OR SO OTHER STATES LOOKING AT
ALTERNATIVES TO TOBACCO.
BUT EVEN WITH THE CURRENT
FRAMEWORK IN PLACE, ONE THAT
WILL REQUIRE A BIT MORE THAN
INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT TO
MOVE FORWARD IN THE WAY SOME ARE
HOPING.
>> ONCE THEY HAVE CONFIDENCE
THAT THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS
GOING TO LEAVE THEM ALONE THERE,
THERE'S GOING TO BE A HUGE
INVESTMENT MADE ALL OVER THE
STATE AND I CAN SEE THE INTEREST
FROM, FROM WALL STREET.
I CAN SEE THE INTEREST FROM,
FROM HEDGE FUNDS AND, AND
INVESTORS ALL ACROSS THE UNITED
STATES THAT WANT TO COME TO
KENTUCKY AND, AND GET IN ON THE
GROUND FLOOR OF AN INDUSTRY THAT
THEY KNOW TEN YEARS DOWN THE
ROAD IS, IS GOING TO BE HUGE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE DRUG
ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION TELLS
THE NEWSHOUR, IT HAS "TAKEN
NUMEROUS STEPS TO ENSURE THAT
THE INDUSTRIAL HEMP PROVISIONS"
OF LAST YEAR'S FARM BILL "ARE
CARRIED OUT."
IN ADDITION TO KENTUCKY, THE
D.E.A. SAYS IT HAS GRANTED
SEVERAL DOZEN PERMITS TO GROW
HEMP IN EIGHT OTHER STATES.
LEARN MORE ABOUT HEMP'S HISTORY
IN THE U.S., INCLUDING HOW
BRITAIN ONCE REQUIRED AMERICAN
COLONISTS TO GROW HEMP IN THE
17th CENTURY.
VISIT US AT pbs.org/newshour.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: RESEARCHERS IN
ITALY ARE NOW USING MODERN
MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY TO SHED MORE
LIGHT ON AN ANCIENT MYSTERY: THE
VOLCANIC ERUPTION THAT DESTROYED
POMPEII.
NEWSHOUR'S MEGAN THOMPSON HAS
THE STORY.
>> Reporter: 2.5 MILLION PEOPLE
VISIT POMPEII EVERY YEAR, MAKING
IT ONE OF ITALY'S BUSIEST
TOURIST ATTRACTIONS.
THE ANCIENT CITY, CLOSE TO
MODERN DAY NAPLES, IS FAMOUS FOR
BEING FROZEN IN TIME, PRESERVED
AS IT WAS WHEN THE VOLCANO MOUNT
VESUVIUS ERUPTED MORE THAN 1,900
YEARS AGO, IN 79 A.D.
POMPEII, BURIED IN TONS OF
VOLCANIC ASH, ALONG WITH THE
REMAINS OF SOME 2,000 PEOPLE
KILLED, WAS FIRST EXCAVATED IN
THE 1800s.
THOSE EARLY DISCOVERERS CREATED
PLASTER CASTS OF THE ANCIENT
PEOPLE'S REMAINS, BUT LITTLE WAS
KNOWN ABOUT THEM.
SO, LAST MONTH, RESEARCHERS
BROUGHT IN A CAT SCAN MACHINE,
LIKE ONE YOU MIGHT FIND IN A
DOCTOR'S OFFICE.
THE MACHINE PENETRATES THE THICK
PLASTER AND CREATES A 3-
DIMENSIONAL IMAGE OF EACH BODY.
THE CAT SCANS REVEAL TWO BIG
DISCOVERIES.
FIRST, MANY VICTIMS DID NOT DIE
FROM SUFFOCATION, AS PREVIOUSLY
THOUGHT, BUT FROM THE FALLING
BUILDINGS.
(translated): WE HAVE FOUND A
LOT OF BROKEN SKULLS.
THIS TELLS US MANY DIED FROM
FALLING ROOFS UNDER THE PRESSURE
OF THE PUMICE.
>> Reporter: SECOND, THE
RESEARCHERS ARE FINDING MANY OF
POMPEII'S VICTIMS HAD
PRACTICALLY PERFECT TEETH, A
REFLECTION, PERHAPS, OF A
HEALTHY MEDITERRANEAN DIET LOW
IN SUGAR AND HIGH LEVELS OF
FLUORIDE IN THEIR WATER SUPPLY.
(translated): WE DISCOVERED
THE ABSENCE OF CAVITIES IN THE
TEETH.
THIS IS VERY INTERESTING.
IT IS NOT COMPLETELY SURPRISING
BECAUSE WE KNOW ABOUT THE
MEDITERRANEAN DIET.
>> Reporter: THE RESEARCHERS
PLAN TO SCAN ALL 86 CASTS OF THE
HUMAN REMAINS, TO HELP US LEARN
MORE ABOUT NOT ONLY HOW THE
PEOPLE OF POMPEII DIED, BUT ALSO
HOW THEY LIVED.
>> Sreenivasan: AND FINALLY,
ASTRONAUT SCOTT KELLY HAS SET AN
AMERICAN RECORD FOR LIVING IN
SPACE.
TODAY IS HIS 204th
CONSECUTIVE DAY IN ORBIT,
BRINGING HIS GRAND TOTAL TO 384
DAYS OVER FOUR DIFFERENT
MISSIONS.
THAT TOTAL PASSES THE RECORD
PREVIOUSLY HELD BY ASTRONAUT
MIKE FINK.
KELLY IS HALFWAY THROUGH A
YEARLONG MISSION ON THE
INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION,
ALONG WITH A RUSSIAN COSMONAUT,
TO STUDY THE EFFECTS OF
LONG-TERM SPACE TRAVEL ON THE
HUMAN BODY.
KELLY IS NOT DUE TO RETURN TO
EARTH UNTIL NEXT MARCH.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.